# Software engineering in practice

**Let's see what software engineers actually do!**

## Zoey Bendef

**What do software engineers actually do?**

Most of your time is not just cutting code or writing code. It's actually analysing what is this problem, how to tackle it. And then how will I know that what I've done actually works, that is also an important thing. It's not just sitting there writing code nonstop and then checking out, saying you're finished.

There is a lot of sitting around, typing, writing software. But it's not just mindlessly doing stuff. A lot of it is researching. You have research, or if you get stuck on something, you spend a lot of time just going through problems online that similar people have come up with and that sort of thing.

**What is the most rewarding part of your job?**

For me, it's kind of what I'm working on actually has real-world applications that would affect people's lives for the better.

## Olga Goloshchapova

**What do software engineers actually do?**

It's actually more thinking and collaborating and understanding the problem than writing code.

First, you need to sit down and you need to really really– think really, really hard about what you're trying to achieve. After you thought really, really hard about what you are trying to achieve, you need to communicate to the other people on your squad whether you have the right assumptions or not. Then you sit down and you really think about what kind of the edge cases do you have for this particular solution. Then you write tests to the search cases. And then you start writing code.

I need to get people to like what they do. I need to get people to understand what they need to achieve in terms of the business value. So it's all about evaluating risks, skilling up people around me, coaching them to understand the business, coaching them to become more self-sufficient, and talking to other teams to kind of collaborate all of this information. It's a lot of talking.

**What is the most rewarding part of your job?**

The most rewarding is when they get it. It's more the fact of being able to see people progressing and learning and building up those skills to become amazing devs, that is the most rewarding thing for me.

## Wayne Buchner

**What do software engineers actually do?**

You need to understand the entirety of the functionality of that project. You need to know when to do the parts of it. You need to know when to cut parts back. Cutting code is the last part of building a software project.

So most of my days or weeks can sort of fit around explaining to the customer what we need in order to make their wishes come true. And that takes an awful amount of time and effort and a lot of communication.

**What is the most rewarding part of your job?**

On the whole, it's fostering the team, making sure everybody is loving what they do, enjoying the job, getting time to learn, and then spreading that knowledge. I think if you have a good team, you can be very relaxed.

## Your task
As we see from our three practitioners, software engineering can lead to very different careers. Is this an area you are interested in? What is it that you find interesting about it?