# Keeping up with software engineering

**What is the future of software engineering? Let's see what practitioners in this field think.**

## What might a job in software engineering look like in the future?

**Wayne Buchner:**

Look, there are so many development tools out there, and it's those tools that in the last 18 months really, have sped up development. And with what's coming, I can see that perhaps, from that side of it will improve development work.

**Olga Goloshchapova:**

From one perspective I see it changing, because there are a lot of things that can support those kind of behaviours and improve productivity and the relationships within the team. On the other hand, there are a lot of things that technology cannot achieve. It's really, really hard to programme for the human behaviour.

## How important is it to stay abreast of new technologies?

**Wayne Buchner:**

Well sadly, I don't get a lot of time for that. I do spend a little bit of time looking through blogs that come up around architecture. So that's very interesting for me. Anyway that we can improve efficiency of the apps that we build is a big plus for us.

**Olga Goloshchapova:**

I don't have to fully understand what new technologies do. I need to be aware of what they achieve. I need to be aware of their limitations. I don't necessarily need to learn how to particularly use them until we do use them. And the reason why I need to know about them or know about their limitations is because I need to evaluate how this particular technology is applicable for the use cases that we have.

## Is it important to know programming languages?

**Zoey Bendef:**

I don't think so. I think having the core skills from them so that you're able to transfer them easily to new ones is more important

**Olga Goloshchapova:**

What you need to know is, you need to know the basic concepts behind the programming language. And you need to know how to learn them fast and how to google stuff.

## Your task
Practitioners agreed that knowing specific programming languages isn't that important for software engineers. Reflect on this and share your thoughts on the insights shared.