# Software engineering in projects

**Let's hear from software engineers what their role in projects is and what they consider a successful project.**

## What are the responsibilities of your role?

**Zoey Bendef:**

It's a mix of planning and design. And then just, yeah, implementing that and working hard solving the problems and writing the code for it.

**Olga Goloshchapova:**

A tech lead is– his or her responsibility is to make sure that the technical vision is implemented and the communication between different departments is happening. And the lead dev is responsible for getting this information out of the tech lead and making sure that the team is delivering this vision. We also split our work between the teams within the department based on the main objectives or main value to the business. So you also responsible for talking to other squads' leads to make sure that you're aligned at the same time.

**Wayne Buchner:**

Well, what we tend to do is we get a very loose set of requirements to begin with. We meet with the client. We do discoverable sessions where we will just make sure that all the requirements are met. Then we plan everything out. We estimate, we build sprints. We then show this to the client. The client signs off on that sprint work, and we move on.

## Are all projects successful?

**Olga Goloshchapova:**

Oh, hell no. Absolutely not. Well, it's also what defines failure. Sometimes failure could be- you ran out of time, but you still need to finish it
the business cuts the plug on it completely
you succeeded to deliver it on time, but it's the wrong thing.

**Wayne Buchner:**

So, yeah, projects fail. An app can be successful, but the project can still fail.

##What do successful projects have in common?

**Olga Goloshchapova:**

From my experience a successful project have a good technical, and vision, and business alignment across the squads.

**Wayne Buchner:**

Can't answer that– don't have any successful projects.

## Your task
Reflect on a project you have been involved in, would you say it was successful? What do you consider as success?