# Planning, prioritising and testing

**Listen to software engineers talk about risks, priorities, testing and technical debt.**

## Prioritising

**Zoey Bendef:**

For me, I tend to rely on project management, so I'll assume that I'll be given the actual priority with the tasks, and we'll just tackle them in the order that someone tells me to, essentially. I've never had to target tasks specifically.

**Wayne Buchner:**

You would normally look to a lead of your project to discuss with the product owner what the priorities of these tasks are to make sure that they're not waiting and to make sure that, really, things don't get done before they need to be done. So you really also always want to think about the next person in the chain, like testers. The developer can estimate and help you determine how long it might take and the complexity of a task, but not really determine which one is better to be done before or after.

## What is technical debt?

**Zoey Bendef:**

I would just consider it anything that is a problematic solution that you've had to come up with, a problem for maybe time or money constraints, that linger and, eventually, you have to go back and fix that. S

o I guess that's where the debt part comes in, where you have to eventually pay it back and fix what problem you or someone else has started.

**Olga Goloshchapova:**

For me, technical debt are the shortcuts that you took knowingly that this is a shortcut and not necessarily the right thing to do because you have time or money or other pressures on the project.

At some point, you need to pay this technical debt, and you need to have an agreement with your product manager or your business to turn around and say, hey, we took those shortcuts. We cannot proceed with this and this and this functionality because that's going to cause us problems. And you need to be able to communicate why it's the case.

## Your task
Had you heard about technical debt before? If you have please share your examples in comments.

