# UI/UX design in projects

**At what stage does UI/UX gets involved in the lifecycle of a project?**

**Anju Curumsing:**

"So you have to start thinking about when you're capturing requirements– so from the very beginning, you have to start thinking what are these requirements and how I can map it to the UI of the project. So it works together."

**Olivia Platek:**

"Ideally, at all stages. In a perfect world for me, they would be coming in at the idea stage or even at the problem identification stage."

**Olga Goloshchapova:**

"At the beginning, as soon as the project starts, you work together. You always work together. I even advocate for UX people to pair with developers when the website is developed. I advocate for developers to participate in coming up with personas and understanding your users because that makes it easier for devs to solve problems that are coming to them."

**Wayne Buchner:**

"In the very beginning. It's the first thing that needs to be done, absolute first thing. So when you get all of your functionality in, you should all be sitting around a room with pencils doing really low-fidelity prototypes and playing with them."

**Damien Manuel:**

"I think you need to get involved day one, upfront. So you can have a great technology. But the user experience of that technology could be very poor, which means it won't be adopted. It won't be used."

**Andrew Vouliotis:**

"For me, some people may disagree with this, but I like getting mock-ups of products to clients nice and early on because it helps extract requirements."

"And that's what I keep on harping on about– it's all about communication and being able to make sure that you have pinpointed the problem and that– what the problem that you're solving is the one that is actually causing the client pain."

## Your task
There is consensus on this among the practitioners interviewed but do you think this happens in real life? Share any experience you have had on this in comments.