# What is a Prototype 

**It is important to understand your purpose behind prototyping. There is a difference between prototyping to discover requirements vs validating requirements.**

## What is a prototype?

The term _prototype_ is used in various contexts and hence, is confusing in its meaning. 

Basically, prototypes are a means to express intent when designing solutions. In software and IT projects, a prototype allows the simulation of the human-computer interaction of the solution. Depending on the purpose of the prototype, it can simulate the entire system or just specific parts of it.

It is a common misunderstand to build a mock-up, sketch or wireframe and refer to it as a prototype, but the static nature of these artefacts mean that they do not allow for the simulation of interactivity. Hence, they should be referred to as they are; a mock-up, sketch or wireframe and not a prototype.

## Why prototype?

Prototypes allow you to test product designs and ideas before fully committing to development. Typically, untested products have a higher likelihood of receiving negative feedback from users. With the pervasiveness of social media, it is likely that users will share this negative experience within those of their network, propagating a negative perception of your product.

Prototyping affords you the opportunity to capture this feedback in a controllable (low-risk) manner before releasing a product to the wild.

During the product development lifecycle, the two use cases for prototyping are to determine if:

* **The concept works as intended.** This is relatively easy to test, just put an interactive prototype of your product in the hands of a real use to observe how your target audience wants to use it, then refine and test again.

* **People are able to use your product.** This is to used resolve usability issues before investing in development; it is significantly cheaper to find flaws while using post-it notes before investing tens of thousands of dollars into time and materials. Measure the usability metrics of effectiveness, efficiency and satisfaction using your prototype, then refine and test again. 

It is important to understand why you are prototyping so you can inform your fidelity requirements.

## Your task

Reflect and share in the comments why you think it is important to identify why you are prototyping in your project.
