# Cyber security in practice

**What is cyber security?**

Let's hear Damien and Kathryn tell us what cyber security involves and what they do in their jobs.

## What is involved in a cyber security job?

**Damien Manuel:**

Cyber-security is so broad that you could be in any sector within cyber-security. So you could be in:

* the architecture side
* the design side
* the governance side
* the security operations centre (looking at threats and looking for hackers)
* the penetration testing side
* the code development
* audit.

**Kathryn Manuel:**

Cyber-security really is a branch of risk management, and we're just simply a subset of broader risk management, where we're looking at a particular area, which is data.

I'm not sitting there coding systems, catching hackers, anything like that. What I'm doing is making sure that organisations that have access to the Commonwealth Bank's data, are doing the right thing with it, that they're protecting it in the right ways, that we are happy with the levels of protection that they are putting in place.

And, we also look at how can we reduce the risks by potentially not sharing as much data, or changing the data set that we do share.

## What is the most rewarding thing about your job?

**Damien Manuel:**

I think protecting organisations is what a lot of people get into cyber-security for. Because you're making a difference and you're sort of fighting the bad guys in terms of the criminals that are trying to either steal money or destroy businesses.

A lot of people enjoy that it's very stimulating, things move very quickly in the industry. You've always got to constantly keep up to date, learn new things. There's always new threats that are emerging, that impact everybody's day-to-day lives. And it's going to be the new frontier, in terms of warfare in the future, as well.

**Kathryn Manuel:**

For me, it's probably the people interactions and helping people to understand why it's important.

Often, when you are in a governance role, people see that as a compliance, check box activity. But, we can bring so much more. And we can add so much more value in terms of educating our business units around what the actual risks are that they're introducing to the business through the activities they are doing. And it's seeing that light moment where they get it.

## Your task
If you went into cyber security, what sector would you chose to work in? Share your thoughts in comments.