# Cyber security today

**What is the cyber security industry focusing on these days?**

Damien and Kathryn talk about the current challenges and concerns in the cyber security industry.

## What are the current private and legal concerns are in the cyber security industry?

**Damien Manuel:**

"Australia's introduced in February 2018 the mandatory data breach notification. So that means an organisation that either accidentally loses data, have been hacked and that data has leaked, needs to publicly acknowledge to the government what's occurred from an incident perspective, which will have huge brand and reputational sort of impacts."

"We're seeing a lot more regulations where data sovereignty is becoming an issue. So if you are working for an organisation that is a multinational, they may have operations in China or Europe or the USA or Singapore, and because of the different jurisdictions and regulations within each of those geographical locations, they may not be able to move data or information between those different geographies."

**Kathryn Manuel:**

"While we're looking at the actual method of transmission, then we need to look at the controls that go with that. So we need to make sure that encryption, for instance, is keeping up. And the encryption needs to always be updated because, of course, a new encryption standard comes in. And pretty quickly, those who have malevolent drivers– they know how to crack it. So we need to be constantly staying on top of those things."

"So data regulation, transmission, and just general protection is a constant, everyday present thing that basically my role revolves around."

## Is the cyber security industry reactive or proactive?

**Damien Manuel:**

"So I think cyber security is definitely active. In the past, I would say it was very reactive. Cyber security in the past was building the fortress around the castle. With today's digital world and the way that technology's integrated so closely now into every aspect of our lives, we can no longer afford that sort of fortress “defend the border” mentality. You need to have cyber security at all different levels within an organisation."

**Kathryn Manuel:**

"We've definitely been reactive. What we are seeing now is definitely a transition to the active-proactive phase. So organisations that are immature still in their information security are much more in the reactive respond. So they just go along doing business. Uh-oh. Something's happened. We've had a data breach, for example. They then respond to that. As organisations become more mature, they start moving into the detect and prevent phases of information security. And I see that the industry as a whole is moving that way. And if you start looking at the products that are now available on the market, they're looking at prevention. So you can still buy all of your products that help you detect that something's happened."

"There will always be a component of reactive because incidents will always happen and that is just a fact of life. The number of times that an incident happens– that's where we can have an impact and reduce them.""

## Your task
What are your concerns with cyber security as a private citizen?