# Managing risks

**What are the risks that cyber security professionals look for? How do they test solutions?**

Both cyber security experts interviewed have a holistic approach to security, let's see what that means.

## What risks/priorities do you identify?

**Damien Manuel:**

Things around flaws in the architecture in the design.

The findings from penetration testing or vulnerability assessment on the product are often very technical and need to be translated to a business risk-based language so that the project team can understand what the consequence is if they proceed without rectifying those identified problems.

**Kathryn Manuel:**

While people can see fantastic new functionality of perhaps, a particular new product, security looks at it and says, oh, I can see potential gaps and vulnerabilities. And those don't necessarily just have to be technology related, they also relate to:

the people who are developing it, have we got a secure lifecycle development happening?
the people who are using it, your end user.
the system administrators.
It's just there is so much to actually consider.

## What does testing mean to you?

**Damien Manuel:**

Testing could mean all kinds of different things. I expect that almost every single outcome or variable for that application, programme, widget, whatever it is has been examined from a usability perspective, a technical perspective, and a fit for function perspective as well.

**Kathryn Manuel:**

It's a rigorous process that has many phases and it can be done in a variety of ways, but fundamentally, you need to test

* that you've got your basics right, such as your coding
* your usability
* do your business verification testing.

So for me, testing is that whole cycle that goes along with projects

## Your task
Explain in your own words what a holistic approach to cyber security means.