# Success and failure

**Are all projects successful? What do successful projects have in common?**

Similar to other IT disciplines, we hear that most projects in cyber security do not succeed.

## What affects projects success?

**Damien Manuel:**

* most projects are not of the quality that people expect
* most projects are over time or they're over budget
* scope creep is a big killer of projects, there's also project fatigue
* what can seem like a great idea in a business case, doesn't always translate into a great idea.

**Kathryn Manuel:**

And I suspect there are a lot of projects that start out saying we're going to deliver a red box, and they end up delivering perhaps an orange circle, or maybe even a green triangle.

## What are the common traits of successful projects?

**Damien Manuel:**

A really good team, the project manager also has a good technical understanding, so it can see the risks that are likely to occur, or the issues that are going to occur, as that project starts to roll out over time.

**Kathryn Manuel:**

Successful projects involve broad, multi-disciplinary teams. They ensure that includes both technical teams and business teams. And really, the key thing is being extremely clear about the objective that you are actually trying to achieve and stopping and making sure that every step along the way, you say, we're delivering this, does that relate back to our objective?

## What happens when you drop the ball?

**Damien Manuel:**

In a company, an individual clicked on a malicious link in an email. The email was constructed to use social engineering to trick the individual into thinking that it was an email from another work colleague. And, when she clicked on that link in the email, it actually executed what's called a zero-day vulnerability, which gave the hackers the ability to take control of her machine.

And then, once they had a foothold on her machine, moved from her machine to another machine within the organisation. Eventually, they ended up causing the organisation about $90 million of damage. And there was a huge publicity in the market around there.

**Kathryn Manuel:**

If someone drops the ball in information security, it's a loss of people's personal information. It can be a loss of credit card, it can lead to fraud and massive impacts. Not only for the individuals whose data has been breached, but for that organisation in terms of fines, reputation, impacts, the loss of confidence from customers.

When it's a project, if they've dropped the ball in the security space, they can actually then introduce those vulnerabilities that can lead to impacts down the track. And it may not be obvious straight away. The impacts may not be identified until two years down the track. And then, it comes to light that we missed something upfront.

So, the impacts are real. Even though cyber feels like it's something non-tangible, and data feels very non-tangible, the impacts are actually very real.

## Your task
The team seems to be a common factor of successful projects. Has this also been your experience in the past?