# Keeping up with cyber security

**How can I ensure that I stay abreast with the latest and current? Let's see what Damien and Kathryn have to say.**

**Damien Manuel:**

"The technology is changing so quickly, and the amount of information that is being built up makes it really difficult to stay abreast of the latest and current."

"Continuous learning. You could look at getting a number of different industry certifications. And some of those certifications require you to collect what they call continued professional education points. Which means that you've got to go to industry events, you've got to go to conferences and things like that as well, in order to maintain your accreditation and support industry-based certification as well."

**Kathryn Manuel:**

"So my main strategies for staying relevant are trying to stay across industries. I'm a member of the key industry association for information security."

"The other thing is continuously looking at what certifications are available in your industry, and what are the certification bodies saying. Is the next thing coming? So, again, it goes back to that continuous education. If you're not doing that, almost in any field these days, but particularly in IT– if you are not continuously educating, you're already behind."

## Your task
Think of your current (or even future) role. What industrial association would be best suited for you? What industry certification would be most relevant? How can you ensure your continued professional education?