# What will cyber security jobs look like in the future?

**Let's hear from cyber security practitioners, whether cyber security jobs will change or disappear altogether in the future.**

## What will go?

**Damien Manuel:**

I think gone are the days of very simple cyber security breaches. They'll still occur. But there's more and more complex sort of attacks and sort of patterns of behaviour that are occurring.

So I think with artificial intelligence and machine learning, you're going to see a lot of the day-to-day tasks that were probably monotonous disappear.

**Kathryn Manuel:**

We are absolutely going to see automation coming into play. There are already discussions going on within my team right now looking at which tasks can be automated, which ones could potentially be automated if we see a bit more development happening, and then which can we clearly not automate.

So looking at report generation, for example, data analysis, all of those things, we're being offered new functionality around what can be done.

##What will stay?

**Damien Manuel:**

The focus will be on people who can think differently, who can look at a problem and tease that problem apart, and also got the ability to communicate with both business and technology aspects.

**Kathryn Manuel:**

I believe what won't change is the personal interaction and the advising side of my role– so those interactions with the business units where we can present them with the information, but they really need it interpreted. And they need it to be explained in business terms. And they need somebody who also understands what the trends are and what the future is looking like to help them better plan.

## Your task
Practitioners believe communication will still be important in the future. What are your strategies to develop good communication skills?