# Achieving a pass

**Let’s go through the different Pass conditions in the rubric and explore them.**

## Completes all relevant tasks for this grade in OnTrack (with allowance in the Individual Retro)

All your tasks for this unit are listed in [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au). To fulfill the Pass condition, you will have to complete all the tasks. Do bear in mind that there are **Individual** and **Team** tasks. In the case of **Individual** Tasks, you'll have to complete and submit it on your own. With **Team** Tasks, only **one** submission is needed per **Team**.

In relation to your Individual Retrospectives, you are required to complete at least 8 out of your 11 Individual Retrospectives. Individual Retrospectives may be marked as fail if not all Pass criteria are ticked off. This means you can 'Fail' up to 3 Individual Retrospectives.

## Attends at least 7 of 9 meetings with supervisor, or has supervisor approval for absence

Your academic supervisor is your direct manager. You wouldn't skip a meeting with your manager without valid reason. If you can't attend a meeting, you'll need to inform your academic supervisor and your team in advance. Depending on your supervisor and team, this could be an hour's notice, or a day's notice. Clarify this expectation in your first meeting with your supervisor. In the case that you had to miss it for medical reasons, you can send a scan of your medical certificate to the Unit Chair. 

## Evidences at least 8 hours of work per week overall

This unit is about **consistent** delivery. You'll need to produce consistent outcomes to complete and deliver the project on time, in addition to understanding your team velocity. We understand when some weeks are busier than others, hence in your Individual Retrospective you'll note we only ask to validate 6+ hours of work. But by the **end** of the unit, your Team Work Log needs to evidence **8 hours of work per week overall**. Remember, this means you need to evidence at least 6 hours of work per week to pass your Individual Retrospectives, and 8 hours per week overall, to pass.

## Does not block or impede the project team's progress due to negligence

Everyone runs into obstacles. It is okay to not be able to complete a task. However, you'll need to **evidence** that you have indeed exhausted **more than three different manners you have attempted** to complete it. If you have attempted multiple ways to complete a task and fail, we advise you to escalate this to your team as early as possible so your team can try to help you out. If you are unable to complete the task and are unable to demonstrate evidence of attempts to solve it **or** are unable to demonstrate evidence that you have asked for assistance from your team and/or your supervisor, then we would consider the delay to be due to **negligence**.

## Conducts self in a professional and respectful manner, based on issues raised to/from supervisor

Professionalism is important. Especially when dealing with your project client/sponsor, supervisor and team. There is a different between playing nice and being professional. Understand that we are not asking you to agree to every request or to work overlong on your project. Examples of professionalism are:

* accountability for your actions
* following through on your action items
* treating others with respect

Do understand that Australia is multi-cultural. Treat others the way you would like to be treated, and always try to see things from their perspective. If you have doubts or questions about this, clarify this expectation in your first meeting with your supervisor. 

## Your task

Reflect on these conditions and share your thoughts in comments.