# Achieving a credit

**Now that we understand how to Pass, how can we obtain a Credit grade?**

To achieve a **Credit**, you'll need to satisfy **all Pass and Credit** conditions. 

We went through the pass conditions in the [previous step](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/sit782-1/1/steps/319459), here we will go through the different Credit conditions in the rubric and explore them.

## Demonstrates more than 75% productive contributions in Work Log by supervisor standards to the team project

You'll note in your Team Work Log there are two "Productivity" columns. 

One column is for your Team to assess if your effort was productive (eg this task was not complex enough to warrant 6 hours of effort). This process of team evaluation is a discussion, your team will be discussing with you to clarify why a certain effort took a length of time. 

The other column is your supervisor's assessment. Essentially, your supervisor has the **final say**, as they will be able to assess if a task was productive based on their experience.

## Work contributed is relevant to the project via successful integration or presence in the final deliverable

This condition is to ensure that your effort was **relevant**. Relevance in this context means that it is **useful** to the final deliverable of this project. 

A great way to demonstrate this is to simply point at the bit of your work that has been delivered in a Sprint Increment or in the final deliverable!

## Actively work to support other team members to achieve team and project goals

In the Team Work Log, there is a Support(er) column to indicate if you have worked with someone collaboratively, worked on something that in parallel with someone for a related piece of work, or helped someone complete a task. 

While your grades are individual, projects are a team effort. You can get marks for helping others, as long as it is not at the expense of your deliverables. 

## Your task

Share your thoughts on the differences between a pass and a credit student.