# Assessment Q&A

**Below are a series of common questions and answers regarding assessment. Remember your learning and grades are your responsibility. **

### How are my grades determined?

Each week, in addition to the development of your assigned project, you will need to complete tasks on OnTrack that compliment the learning material and assist you with the completion of your project. 

These tasks will be marked by your supervisor and the teaching staff, and help form your overall mark for the unit. 

### Assessment tasks
All assessment tasks will be delivered and submitted through the [OnTrack platform](<https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au>). Note that this unit uses 100% portfolio assessment (see **OnTrack and Portfolio Overview** for more information). 

You will complete one task at a time, each will contribute to your overall mark. 

Tasks are clearly noted to signify how much the task contributes to your overall mark/grade: Pass (P), Credit (C), Distinction (D), or High Distinction (HD). 

To achieve a P, you are required to satisfactorily complete **all** the Pass tasks. 

To achieve a HD, you are required to satisfactorily complete **all** tasks (and not just the tasks marked as High Distinction). 

In this unit, there is a mixture of **team based tasks**, and **individual tasks**.

### How can I get a higher grade (eg HD) in this unit

To achieve a HD, you are required to complete **all** tasks (and not just the tasks marked as High Distinction). 

Refer to articles 1.6 to 1.10 to examine how you can satisfy the conditions of each grade. This is also reflected in your Individual Retrospectives where you convey what grade you think you are on track to achieve. 
 
In the Weeks 6 and 11, you will be completing Grade Milestone reports to convey whether you are holistically on track for your target grade. 

These tasks, are also opportunities for you to obtain feedback from your supervisor. You will find that you will receive more feedback and advice to help you get a Pass in comparison to a High Distinction, as the onus is on you to demonstrate how you will achieve the high target grade.

### What happens to my grade if the project does not succeed?

The conditions of each grade are aligned with the delivery of a successful and productive project. It is possible to have a project fail and still achieve a good great, but this will be very challenging to achieve, as you would have to demonstrate significant efforts that you have made to toward a successful project.

## Common team issues

### In my team, I have done all the work and the rest of the team has not done anything. Do I get a HD for this effort?

* Maybe, depending how what the deliverables evidence.

The grades for this unit are **Individual**. However, you will notice that some of the conditions to attain higher grades involve collaboration and assisting your team members. This is a _team project_ unit after all. If you can demonstrate that you have made significant effort to motivate and assist your team, you can still attain a high individual grade.

### I was unable to participate on any/the majority of the team meetings. Am I still able to pass this unit?

* No, one of the Pass conditions is attendance at 7 out of 9 supervisor meetings unless supervisor approval has been obtained for your absence.

This also means that unless it is for medical reasons or an emergency, you are expected to inform your team and supervisor in advance (circa 12 to 24 hours) that you will be unable to attend the meeting, while providing satisfactory reason for why you can't attend. Your attendance at this meeting is also captured in your Team Work Log.

If you miss a meeting you need to follow up with your team regarding your assigned tasks and how the project is progressing.

Note that your meeting minutes need to be collated in Week 11 and submitted as an assessment task. **It is important to capture meeting minutes at the time of meetings**, as your supervisor can and may ask to review your team minutes at any time, or to verify your Team Work Log entries.
