
# Communication Q&A

**Below are a series of common questions and answers regarding communication.**

## Team

### I was unable to get any response from my team members. What should I do?

It is the responsibility of each team member to have good communication with their team. 

It is expected that any e-mail is responded to within 48 hours (2 business days). 

If a team member is not responding, you need to discuss it with your supervisor. 

## Supervisor

### How do project supervisors work?
Each team will have an academic member assigned as a supervisor. Your project supervisor is your mentor/guide for the project and the teams are required to work with them during the project. 

Supervisors not only monitor the progress of your project, they will also assess your tasks and deliverables. You are required to meet with your supervisor regularly (weekly) to update on the progress of the project and discuss any issues related to the project/team.

### How and when to setup supervisor meetings?
When you are assigned a project (in Week 3), the project supervisor's contact information will be shared with you. Setting up meetings and communicating with the project supervisor is the team's responsibility. Make sure the recurring calendar invites are set up for regular meetings to include all the members in the team.

It is expected that your team's first meeting with the project supervisor takes place in Week 3. You are **required** to meet with your supervisor weekly. 

You will need to prepare a meeting agenda, communicate this agenda with all the team members and the supervisor, and arrange a meeting time for the all supervisor meetings.   

## Client

### How do project clients work?

The client is the key project stakeholder (if there is one associated with the project) who will be providing direction on the project in terms of requirements and possibly priorities. 

Yor supervisor may also act as the client in some projects, or you may work directly with a client (eg an industry project sponsor). 

It is the team's responsibility to ensure that a professional communication is maintained with the client (ensure your supervisor is included in all client communications and meetings). Professional and respectful conduct is one of the conditions to **Pass** this unit.

### How and when to setup client meetings (if there is one in the project)?

You are required to meet with the client as agreed with the team, supervisor and client.The occurrences of these meetings is dependent on the Sprint demo (following a scrum based methodology). 

It is recommended to keep the client updated with the progress, and also that the feedback and priorities are discussed regularly. You have a formal mechanism to do so via your Sprint Increment report, however you can engage them more regularly depending on your client's availability. 

We recommend having a single point of contact with the client from your team. But, ensure that your supervisor is copied in all the communications, such as emails. 

Make sure calendar invites are set up and any communication methods are established correctly (Skype/face-face). 

**Note** There is a possibility that there may be other groups working on the same project with the same client. It is your responsibility to discuss with your supervisor, and take a coordinated approach when meeting with the client. 
