# Project Q&A

**Here are some of the common questions and answers regarding projects and teams.**

## Where can I find the projects?
Available projects, their descriptions, and their associated supervisor are available [here-ADD LINK]().

## What types of projects are there?
The available projects cover a large variety of disciplines and should have something of interest for all IT students: web development, software development, database administration, IT security, and more. 

Each project may require a range of skills along the full development stack:

   * Customer and business needs
   * User Experience (UX) and User Interface (UI)
   * Business logic
   * Data modelling

It is not expected for you to be an expert of all layers of the development stack. This is a team-based unit, therefore it is likely each team member may have knowledge and can contribute to one or two layers of the development stack, and as a team the entire stack can be covered. There is also plenty of opportunity to learn new skills or to improve old ones.

## How are members assigned to a project?
You will be tasked with identifying and documenting your IT-related skills, as well as specifying your project preference. 

Additionally, you must provide thought and evidence as to what project you would like to take charge in, aligning what skills you have to offer with a particular project that could benefit from this, as well as recommend students to be included in your team based on their skills and the needs of the project. 

Your project preferences and your skillsets are gathered as part of your assessment tasks in Week 1. Refer to **Task 1.2 SWOT and Project preference** for more details.

All these will assist the teaching team with assigning teams to projects, where you will then **be informed of which project you have been assigned to in Week 3 via your Deakin University email.**

Note that the information that you provide will be considered to accommodate your preferences and your team members preferences as much as possible. However, there is no guarantee of who you will be placed in a team with. Priority will be placed on project and client requirements, and on the appropriate coverage of skill sets needed for each project. 

## What role do I perform in the project?
This is dependent on what skills you possess as an individual, what particular project you have been assigned, and the dynamic amongst your team. 

During the first few weeks you and your team will discuss what strengths and weaknesses your team has, and how this can be applied to your assigned project. Each project will also need to be broken down into its required tasks and one or more members of the team will be assigned to each task. 

## What are the expectations of team members?
Being clear with what is expected of each team member early on is crucial for any team. Failure to do so results in a less productive team, prone to mistakes and missed deadlines. 

In Week 3 you will have a chance to meet and discuss with your team what is expected of each team member, and document how you expect to work together and resolve issues. 

It is recommended that you work together as a team, no matter where you are working from (ie remotely or face to face). For example, you can use collaborative communication tools, such as Skype, to allocate a time period to work together as a team. This way you might be able to help each other and be more productive in terms of developing the deliverables of the project.     

## Do I need to sign an IP agreement for working on a project?

**Yes, you will have to submit some form of IP Agreement as an assessment task in Week 3.** 

Some projects may have sponsors associated with them which require IP (intellectual property) agreements to be signed before starting the project. If this is the case, the project description will have this requirement clearly outlined.

If a team is assigned to those projects, then **all** the members of the team have to sign the IP agreement to work on that project. Details for how to complete this are in the relevant assessment task in [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au).

Refer to the [Deakin Policy Library](https://policy.deakin.edu.au/view.current.php?id=00192) for more information.
 




