<div id="banner"></div>

# SIT782 Project Delivery
## Grading Agreement Quiz

1. How many Supervisor meetings can you miss and still pass the unit?
    a.  As many as I want
        * No! NO! Refer to the rubric!
    b.  I can miss up to 2 without notice. If I miss any more than that I need to have obtained approval from my supervisor prior, or have a valid medical certificate.
        * Yes! Everyone's time is valuable.
    c.  I can miss 6 meetings without providing reasons or obtaining approval.
        * Nope. Please go read the articles in Week 1 again.

2. I have to pass all my Individual Retrospectives to Pass the unit:
    a.  True
        * False. You only need to "Pass" 8 of your Individual Retrospectives.
    b.  False.
        * Great work!
    c. I don't know
        * It is your responsibility to know.

3. As long as I satisfy only the conditions of the Credit grade, I will get the Credit grade.
    a.  True
        * Nope. You'll need to satisfy all the conditions of the Pass AND Credit grades to get the Credit.
    b.  False
        * Bingo! You're absolutely right! You need to satisfy all conditions of prior grades as well.
    c. I am not quite sure. 
        * It is your responsibility to **know**.
    
4. I can satisfy all Pass and Credit grade conditions and only one Distinction condition to be eligible for the Distinction grade.
    a.  False
        * Correct, you need to satisfy ALL conditions of prior and the target grade, except for the High Distinction.
    b.  True
        * Incorrect, for Distinction, you'll need to satisfy all Pass, Credit and Distinction conditions.

5. Every one in the team will get the same grade.
    a.  False
        * Yup - your grades are individual in this unit, but it relies on teamwork to satisfy the higher grade conditions.
    b.  True
        * Nope - grades are individual in this unit.

## Instructions

1. For this task you need to undertake the quiz in FutureLearn at the end of week 1. You can have multiple attempts at each question, but you need to get all the questions right.

2. Submit the screen shot of your quiz result with your Grade Agreement task.


## Submission Details

Take a screen shot of your 100% pass result for this quiz and submit it along with your Grade Agreement task in [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au).

## QUIZ RULES

* Quizzes do not count towards your course score, they are just to help you learn
* You may take as many attempts as you wish to answer each question
* You can skip questions and come back to them later if you wish

<div style="page-break-after:always;"></div>
