#Submitting tasks in OnTrack
**Let’s see how to submit your tasks to OnTrack for feedback.**

Once you have checked that you are happy with your task:

1. Login, and go back into Tasks 1.1P.  
2. Change the status of the task from Working on it to Ready for feedback. 
3. Check what files you will need to upload. Sometimes you will need to submit a screenshot. 
4. To get a screenshot, start by making sure you can see your terminal window.  
5. Grab a shot of your terminal window.  
6. Switch back to OnTrack and upload the code and screenshot.  
7. Add a comment to your tutor, let them know if there is anything you want them to focus on.  
8. Finally, upload…  

The files will be uploaded to the server, which will convert them into a single PDF file that can be included in your portfolio. Your tutor will review your file and give you feedback. In general, your tutor will update the status of your tasks to one of the following states:

* **Fix and Resubmit:** there are some things you need to change in order to meet the required standard. You can make these changes and resubmit it.

* **Discuss:** the task appears to meet the required standard, and the tutor wants to discuss the ideas behind the task with you to make sure you are ok for this to be marked as complete.  
Complete: once you have discussed the task with your tutor, and you are both happy that you have achieved the required learning outcomes, the task is marked as complete. You can include this task in your portfolio with high confidence that it demonstrates what is required.

* **Time Exceeded or Submissions Exceeded:** you have either missed the deadline or have had the task re-assessed more than three times. We cannot provide further feedback and you need to make sure the task is of the required standard to include in your portfolio. In effect, this will limit your result to at most, the grade of the associated task. Missing a deadline for a Pass task will limit you to a pass grade. So please aim to work to the target dates.  

* **Redo:** this usually means that you have uploaded something entirely wrong or you have missed the point of a task. This is similar to Fix and Resubmit, but your tutor would like you to start the task again. Check their comments to see what they suggest.  

**Please note:** it is your responsibility to ensure all tasks meet the required standard in your portfolio. Your tutor is there to help you. If they ask you to fix or redo a task, they are helping you improve your work for the final assessment in your portfolio.

Congratulations. You are well on the way to completing tasks 1.1P. You should have feedback from your tutor within a week, but in the meantime, you can move on to the next task.

## Your task
Read over the task assessment process. We want everyone to do really well, but your efforts are the most important factor in determining what you demonstrate as you’re learning. What are you going to do to make sure you succeed?