# Learning online with Deakin

**At Deakin, you can expect to receive a world-class 21st century education enriched by multiple opportunities to interact with like-minded students, leading educators and industry peers.**

Deakin’s online courses are based on a few, but important, learning principles. To get the most out of this course, we encourage you to keep in mind the following:

## Our learning philosophy
Deakin University is a pioneer in innovative online learning, and several key principles underpin all our online courses, which are designed to:

* challenge you with new and interesting ideas
* prompt you to connect and engage with other learners and Deakin educators
* test your knowledge and understanding against clearly defined learning outcomes.

## Get involved
Getting the most out of your online learning experience begins with getting involved.

Our courses are designed for adult learners from around the globe who, like you, have diverse work, life and study experiences. One of the key ways to optimise your learning is to connect, respond and engage in topic-related conversations with other participants.

Likewise, participating in the tasks set by your educators is a critical step in getting the most out of this course.

<!-- To find out more about getting the most out of FutureLearn’s social learning features, see these [six tips and tools](URL). -->

## Be mindful of others
Sometimes your educators might ask you to share personal opinions or experiences that may be sensitive or controversial in nature. In such situations, you should only share your thoughts if you’re comfortable doing so.

While we encourage robust debate, we also ask you to observe the FutureLearn [Code of Conduct]() and be respectful of other participants and their individual points of view.

## Your task
Watch the video to find out more about how to get the most out of this Deakin University FutureLearn course.

If this is the first time you’ve studied online, you might want to ask some questions.

On the other hand, if you’ve previously studied online with Deakin or FutureLearn, you may be able to offer some helpful tips or advice.
