# Unit Structure
**If you have not completed SIT764, we strongly recommend you enrol and complete that program first.**

This unit consists of 2 courses spread over the trimester and will build on everything you have learnt and done in SIT764.

Information will be available to you covering all required knowledge for this unit in the form of articles, videos, and web links.

## Courses
Future Learn content in this Unit is not prescribed in a chronological manner, all the content is relevant throughout the trimester, not just in each relevant week.

**All** of Course 1 will be available to you from commencement, and subsequently, **all** of Course 2 will be available to you after Week 5.

### Course 1 
This course encapsulates 4 weeks of content. The content delivered here will cover:

* how this unit works, including how you can obtain each grade
* how you set up your tools/environments
* how agile and scrum works
* how you can ensure you are solving the right problem
* how you can organise your efforts toward a unified deliverable

### Course 2 
This course encapsulates 6 weeks of content. We have reached out to practitioners to debunk myths about their role and discipline, discuss how their role and discipline operate in a project context, and offer advice for how you can transition from student to professional. The content delivered here will cover:

* Team Dynamics and Professional Skills
* Project Management
* Discipline specific advice, for:
    * Software Development and Engineering
    * Artificial Intelligence, Data Science and Research
    * Human-Computer Interaction, User Interfaces and User Experience
    * Cyber Security and Networking

## Weekly schedule

The following describes the schedule of work that will be undertaken on a weekly basis:

* **Week 1:** Take this time to understand how this unit operates. Carefully read the conditions of how you are assessed in this unit. **This is may be a very different assessment system from any other university unit you have undertaken.**

* **Week 2:** This week will help refresh your knowledge of Agile and Scrum. We've added _Pro Tips_, or _Professional Tips_ throughout the content, to narrate lessons we have learnt through our careers that are relevant to the content.

* **Weeks 3 & 4 (Sprint 1):** Welcome to Sprint 1. You would have been placed in your team and granted access to your Team Worklog. Use Week 3 to onboard yourselves to the project and produce the first iteration of your Scope document that you will send to the client and your supervisor for validation. Week 4 will be used to incorporate the Scope feedback to produce iteration 2 of your Scope document, your Product Backlog.

* **Weeks 5 & 6 (Sprint 2):** In Sprint 2, you continue implementing as a team. This sprint will culminate with a demonstration of your Increment to your client and supervisor to open the feedback loop for your artefact. Your Scope will likely need to be updated to reflect this feedback.

* **Weeks 7 & 8 (Sprint 3):** In Sprint 3, you continue to produce and demo your Increment to enable feedback from your client and supervisor. At the end of Sprint 3, we **lock** the Scope document to ensure no more changes occur, as the next Sprint will be your last.

* **Weeks 9 & 10 (Sprint 4):** This is your final Sprint to produce and deliver your final solution.

* **Week 11:** In this week, work as a team to submit your Trello and Repository Logs as well as any outstanding Meeting Minutes to OnTrack. Reflect about your experience in this program and articulate it in your final Individual Retrospective.
