# Working in a project team

**Your first task is to join a project team, you will work together towards completing a chosen project.**

A variety of projects are available, and there should be something of interest to students from various technological backgrounds. You and your team are expected to work throughout the unit on creating deliverables (more on this soon), to eventually have a completed project as per the requirements laid out by the project sponsor or client.

**Despite being part of a team your grades in this unit are individual.**

## Responsibilities

As a Masters-level student in this unit it is expected that you:

*	keep up to date with the weekly material and tasks.
*	consider yourself as the player while lecturers and sessional staff are the coaches, meaning that we are here to help if needed but ultimately the work is up to you.
*	pay attention to plagiarism issues. Plagiarism is strictly against our policy here at Deakin University, and will not be tolerated in any form.
*	read the requirements of the unit in detail.
*	contribute evenly and willingly to your team.
*   check your Deakin University email regularly for any correspondence from the teaching staff.

Deakin University has a set of Graduate Learning Outcomes (GLOs) that apply to all your units. Learning outcomes such as Teamwork, Communication, and Global Citizenship, in particular, will apply to this unit. Please take some time to read about the [Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes](<http://www.deakin.edu.au/about-deakin/teaching-and-learning/deakin-graduate-learning-outcomes>) before proceeding onto the rest of the content.

## Your task
Deakin University has a set of Graduate Learning Outcomes (GLOs) that apply to all your units. Learning outcomes such as Teamwork, Communication, and Global Citizenship, in particular, will apply to this unit. Please take some time to read about the [Deakin Graduate Learning Outcomes](http://www.deakin.edu.au/about-deakin/teaching-and-learning/deakin-graduate-learning-outcomes) before proceeding onto the rest of the content.
