# Focusing on delivery

**Unlike many University units that simply require you to complete set assignments, this unit focuses on deliverables**.

A deliverable is a tangible, measurable and specific artefact that you produce at a standard that can be given to a client. Some examples of deliverables are:

* a prototype
* a technical report
* documentation
* a segment of software code
* a spike report of a new technology

In the early weeks of this unit, you will learn about the project that you and your team will be executing, to understand in detail the expected deliverable you will be implementing.

It is expected that **each Sprint produces a demonstrable Increment** that can be used to garner feedback from your client and supervisors. This encapsulates all phases of work such as:

* planning
* requirements gathering
* analysis
* design
* implementation
* validation. 

This means that time management, teamwork, communication, and personal responsibility are a must for the successful completion of your project.

Companies are constantly evolving and they need strong professionals who can work as a team, can plan out their projects, and efficiently and effectively develop and deliver any project. Some of the skills you will learn from this unit are:

*	to effectively work in teams
*   to identify and constructively correct mistakes
*	to organise and decompose big problems into smaller tasks and components
*	leadership skills
*	effective and efficient communication
*	understanding and distilling different perspectives (eg sponsors, clients, and stakeholders)
*	critical thinking and problem solving
*	to plan a project, aim high, and deliver!

## Your task
This week is all about getting started, becoming familiar with the projects and the unit, and reflecting on your skills. Progress through the learning materials and complete the weekly tasks.
