# Individual and team deliverables

**Let’s go through the expected individual and team deliverables. All of these deliverables are mandatory.**

## What is a deliverable?

A deliverable is an outcome produced by an activity you have undertaken during the course of this unit. In the context of SIT782, your deliverables are what we are using to assess you for your grade. Let's go through the various individual and team deliverables expected of you throughout this trimester.

## Individual deliverables

The grade for this unit is individual, hence it is important to track and monitor your individual submissions. Here are **some** of the Individual deliverables for this unit:

* **Individual Retrospectives:** due every week to be completed using the template provided and submitted via [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au). This is a reflection and brief weekly checkpoint that you can use to communicate to your supervisor how you are tracking on the journey to your target grade.

* **SWOT and Project Preference:** This is a one time submission due in Week 1 that allows me to allocate you to a team! You'll notice that to Pass, you need to consistently produce both Individual and Team deliverables. Hence, this is a **VERY** important task! 

* **Spike Report(s):** A mandatory Spike is expected from you in Week 2, to be completed using the template provided and submitted via [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au). In subsequent weeks, if you find yourself Spiking more, log your effort in your Team Work Log and attach the Spike Report to the end of your Individual Retrospective for the week.

* **Pass Grade Milestone:** This is a mandatory report due in Week 6 and again in Week 11 (Tasks 6.5P and 11.6P in [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au)). The purpose of this report is to succinctly demonstrate to your supervisor that _holistically_ you are still on track to Pass the unit. To be eligible to attain a Pass, you will need to have completed **BOTH Pass Milestone Reports**.

* **Credit Grade Milestone:** This is an optional report due in Week 6 and again in Week 11 (Task codes suffixed with `C` in [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au)), if you are aiming to achieve a Credit grade. The purpose of this report is to succinctly demonstrate to your supervisor that _holistically_ you are on track to satisfy the conditions to obtain a Credit in the unit. This is needed **in addition** to the Pass Grade Milestone reports. To be eligible to attain a Credit, you will need to have completed **ALL Pass and Credit Milestone Reports**.

* **Distinction Grade Milestone:** This is an optional report due in Week 6 and again in Week 11 (Task codes suffixed with `D` in [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au)), if you are aiming to achieve a Distinction grade. The purpose of this report is to succinctly demonstrate to your supervisor that _holistically_ you are on track to satisfy the conditions to obtain a Distinction in the unit. This is needed **in addition** to the Pass **and** Credit Grade Milestone reports. To be eligible to attain obtain a Distinction, you will need to have completed **ALL Pass, Credit and Distinction Milestone Reports**.

* **High Distinction Grade Milestone:** This is an optional report due in Week 6 and again in Week 11 (Task codes suffixed with `HD` in [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au)), if you are aiming to achieve a High Distinction grade. The purpose of this report is to succinctly demonstrate to your supervisor that _holistically_ you are on track to satisfy the conditions to obtain a High Distinction in the unit. This is needed **in addition** to the Pass, Credit **and** Distinction Grade Milestone reports. To be eligible to attain obtain a Distinction, you will need to have completed **ALL Pass, Credit, Distinction and High Distinction Milestone Reports**.

There will be more Individual deliverables that are required of you, be sure to check [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au) frequently! 

## Team deliverables

Most of your deliverables are Team deliverables, since you are working in a team to produce an outcome for your project. How does that work given that all grades are individual? We use a Team Work Log to index individual effort in team tasks. Below we list **some** of the Team deliverables that you are expected to produce: 

* **Team Work Log:** Your Team Work Log is a master spreadsheet used to log all your efforts for the week. Access to your Team Work Log will be granted in Week 3 once you have been allocated to a team and project. For instructions for how to record entries in your Team Work Log, refer to the Team Work Log tasks and subsequent similar tasks in [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au). We expect this document to be kept up to date from Weeks 3 to Week 11.

* **Intellectual Property Agreement:** Your project progress will be impeded if you do not complete this. We will not be able to accept your subsequent submissions if this has not been completed. Get it done and marked off by your supervisor as soon as possible!

* **Sprint Increment:** Due at the end of each Sprint (Weeks 4, 6, 8 and 10), your Sprint Increment encapsulates the artefacts produced during your Sprint. These artefacts are supported by your Sprint Increment Report, described in the relevant tasks in [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au). Once your supervisor marks the Task as Complete, you are expected to email the Sprint Increment to your client and CC your supervisor.

* **Sprint Retrospectives:** In Scrum, we perform Sprint Retrospectives to reflect and improve our process for future Sprints. We've recorded a video for how to perform a Sprint Retrospective. Perform one with your team at the end of every Sprint and tell us what you are going to START doing, STOP doing and CONTINUE doing. This Task is also due at the end of each Sprint (Weeks 4, 6, 8 and 10). Refer to relevant tasks in [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au) for more information regarding what to submit.

There will be more Team deliverables that are required of you, be sure to check [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au) frequently!

## How do these contribute to my grade?

We have discussed the various deliverables that are due through the trimester. Next, we will address how these deliverables get assessed to determine your grade for the unit.

## Your task
There will be more Individual and team deliverables that are required of you, be sure to check [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au) frequently!