# How you achieve your Grade

**This unit employs a 100% portfolio assessment, meaning you are assessed holistically throughout the trimester for your final grade.**

## What does each grade mean?

We articulate the conditions of each grade based on what each grade **communicates** to a propective employer and about yourself as a potential employee. Each grade conveys the following message to an employer:

* **Fail:** Do not hire. Student does not produce outcomes, or fails to conduct themself in a professional and respectful manner. 

* **Pass:** Risky hire. Works, but may not produce relevant outcomes.

* **Credit:** Decent hire. Works and produces mostly relevant outcomes.

* **Distinction:** Good hire. Takes ownership of outcomes, producing relevant outcomes while manging time and risks effectively. 

* **High Distinction:** Excellent hire. Demonstrates capability to lead teams and initiatives, takes ownership of outcomes, producing relevant outcomes while manging time and risks effectively.

## What are the conditions of each grade?

This article will introduce you to how the grading rubric works for this unit. As this is a _project delivery_ unit, you will be assessed on your contributions to the delivered solution.

The SIT782 [Grading Rubric](/images/sit782-rubric.png) below shows the conditions you will need to satisfy to achieve each grade. The conditions to achieve each grade is as follows:

* **Pass:** satisfy ***all*** conditions of the **Pass** grade.

* **Credit:** satisfy ***all*** conditions of the **Pass** ***and*** **Credit** grade. 

* **Distinction:** satisfy ***all*** conditions of the **Pass**, **Credit** ***and*** **Distinction** grade. 

* **High Distinction:** satisfy ***all*** conditions of the **Pass**, **Credit**, **Distinction** ***and at least one condition of the*** **High Distinction** grade. 

## How do I know I am on track?

There are several mechanisms in [OnTrack](https://ontrack.deakin.edu.au) to monitor your progress, namely:

* Individual Retrospectives: This is the opportunity for your supervisor to provide quick feedback regarding your progress toward your target.

* Team Work Log: This is to contextualise your individual efforts within the project, that is conveyed to both your team and your supervisor.

* Supervisor Meetings: Outside of your OnTrack feedback, these meetings are an opportunity to obtain more detailed feedback from your supervisor individually and as a team.

* Grade Milestones: This accumulates your efforts at checkpoints to help determine if holistically, you are on track for your target grade.

## Your task

Now that you’ve seen the conditions of each grade, what grade are you aiming for? Once you have an idea, you can explore the next steps to find out how these grade conditions can be satisfied.
