# Lean project management
**In this article, we will learn about the Lean Project Management and how it can be used to augment your approach to projects.**

Lean comes from Lean Manufacturing, or Lean Production, derived Toyota Motor Corporation's Toyota Production System, adapted by Mary and Tom Poppendieck for software development. The Lean methodology focuses on minimising waste without compromising productivity. Outside of the manufacturing context, this methodology is about eliminating time and effort spent on activities and outcomes that do not add value to the project.

(Poppendieck, M. and Poppendieck, T., 2007. Implementing lean software development: From concept to cash. Pearson Education.)

## Lean Principles

* **Eliminate Waste:** A clear understanding of the value proposition of a project is crucial to identifying what constitutes as waste. Value however, is not static, hence it is important for the team to understand what customers value, so that they may best deliver it.

* **Build Quality In:** The Lean methodology advocates that inspection must occur as effort is expended, e.g. check each line of code as you write it for bugs instead of checking the function after it has been written. An enabling practice for this is Test Driven Development, where tests are written before code.

* **Create Knowledge:** The Waterfall methodology assumes that knowledge in the form of requirements, exists separately from and prior to development. This does not account for important feedback once a project commences, as needs to be used to inform and adjust the scope of work. Hence, from a Waterfall methodology perspective, change is considered bad, especially if it deviates from the initial requirements, regardless of whether the solution delivered meets the customer's needs, whereas from the Lean perspective, change is viewed as good, as it incorporates knowledge gained from developing the product to deliver a solution that better meets customer needs.

* **Defer Commitment:** Some projects require irreversible decisions to be made, such as technology choices. As Lean presumes knowledge increases with time in the project, it advocates deferring such critical decision points till the last _responsible_ moment to make them. This allows a team to gather as much information to inform the decision making process prior to committing to a course of action. This does not discourage planning, as the act of planning is an important learning exercise, but circumstances change, and hence, so must plans.

* **Deliver Fast:** Speedy delivery is adapted from the business principle of Time to Market. Time to Market encompasses the length of time from product conception to delivery so as to maximise profitability in competitive industries. In the case of project management, the effect of expeditious delivery can be twofold; the product could enjoy being first to market, and the shorter the lead time reduces the opportunity for customers to change their minds.

* **Respect People:** The Lean methodology challenges the concept of the "best way" to do something. It operates on the principle that there is always room for improvement. It is also important as a solution provider to view the solution from the perspectives of the people using the solution.

* **See the Whole:** Process optimisation typically focuses on key areas to optimise. However, it is important to understand that solutions do not exist in isolation, and hence the entire value stream from being approached by a customer to collection of payment is to be examined and optimised as a whole. This requires a holistic view on the entire life cycle of a project to identify and action optimisation.
