# Difference between Lean and Agile

**Agile was about optimising software development. Lean is about optimising the value stream, inclusive of the requirement gathering phase to collecting payment.**


Lean focuses on:

**1. Building the right thing:** To understand and deliver real value to real customers.

There is a risk involved when a team only works with one customer representative as it only presents one perspective of customer interest, typically not informed by operational (what happens downstream) or technical experience (what is the existing infrastructure and stack). A team focused on solving real problems will continually integrate diverse knowledge from team members, upstream and downstream of the problem environment and so on, to enrich the effectiveness of the solution.

**2. Building it fast:** To dramatically reduce the lead time from customer need to delivered solution.

Lean's secret sauce is the focus on flow efficiency, specifically, the length of time between a a customer request to deployment in production. This tends to take much longer than expected due to subtle dependencies in the solution that needs to be thoroughly examined and tested to ensure the solution still functions as a cohesive whole. This lead to practices of decoupling against heavy dependencies to enable rapid independent changes.


**3. Building the thing right:** Guarantee quality and speed with automated testing, integration and deployment.

This is a software development specific focus, to advocate for developers to write unit tests that are immediately integrated into their branch of work. This is evangelised further with test-driven development and continuous integration, which advised writing incremental executable product specifications, moving testing and validation to the forefront of the process. Binary tests with arbitrary pass or fail criteria are advised to be automated so that code can be integrated into the overall system much more frequently during implementation, affording faster feedback.


**4. Learning through feedback:** Evolve the product design based on early and frequent end-to-end feedback.

Enabled by rapid implementation and deployment as well as informed and supported by diverse expertise and frequent solution validation, teams can increase the frequency that they deliver working solutions to customers. In effect, customers can A/B test features against their market, generating more feedback to inform subsequent efforts. This leads to significant business-wide benefits, however require organisational transformation, and is not just a 'IT department mode of operation'.

## Your Task
How do you think you could integrate these Lean philosophies into Agile and Scrum to augment your value production?