# User groups and characteristics

**User groups and characteristics identify who will be using the product.**

Having an understanding of the users will inform your usage work-flow, which in turn impacts your system design all the way through to data persistence (eg storing data in file systems or databases) in some cases.

One way of structuring user characteristics is to identify the primary, secondary and tertiary user groups.

## Primary User Group
The primary user group encapsulates the end users of the product, or group of people you are building the system for.

Interfaces designed for the primary users tend to be:

* Aesthetically pleasing (styled to help generate revenue or increase productivity, while maintaining or increasing user satisfaction)
* Low in friction (making it simple and usable, minimal number of mouse clicks or finger taps to perform tasks)
* Supported by on screen instructions to support users in real time (so as to not disrupt the usage experience)

If you are designing:

* an aeroplane cockpit, your primary user is the pilot.

* a new front-end for FutureLearn, your primary users will be the FutureLearn enrolled students.

* an ATM machine, your primary users are your bank customers

* a Myki (Victorian public transport fare payment mechanism) tap on interface, your primary users are your public transport commuters.

Designing for the primary user group is important, as it becomes the point of interaction between you and your users. As with human interactions, you should endeavour to make a good impression (eg usable and understandable interface) and conduct yourself professionally (eg system dies gracefully if there's an error with instructions on what the user can do to help resolve it).

## Secondary User Group
The secondary user group is typically the client that has engaged you to build the product. Alternatively, if the product is a platform, the secondary user group would be the content creators.

Interfaces designed for the secondary users tend to be:

* Functional aesthetics (styled for function and information delivery)
* Guided with validation to display relevant supporting information or to prevent mistakes

If you are designing:

* an airplane cockpit, your secondary users are the mechanics installing and maintaining the internal components of the cockpit.

* a new front-end for FutureLearn, your secondary users are the academics that create content to be distributed to the students, who are the primary users.

* an ATM Machine, your secondary users are the bank, which govern the functionalities supported by the machines, and the service team that comes to load and unload cash at periodic intervals.

* a Myki tap on interface, your secondary users are the station staff that assist users with top ups, registration and issuing of new Mykis and so on.

Secondary users typically support the primary users in achieving the goals and tasks of the system. Note that in these examples, each product and system described already outline the different interfaces and work-flows for the primary and secondary user groups.

## Tertiary User Group
The tertiary user group typically administers to the product or system. However, it is just as important to think though and design the usage work-flow and interfaces for this group, as mistakes made here tend to be catastrophic (eg dropping the database by mistake).

Interfaces designed for the primary users tend to be:

* Simplistic in aesthetics (likely command line interfaces)
* Guided with validation to display relevant supporting information or to prevent mistakes
* Modal with multiple checkpoints to confirm actions

If you are designing:

* an airplane cockpit, your tertiary users are the engineers that come in and plug in to each component to troubleshoot problems with the aircraft.

* a new front-end for FutureLearn, your tertiary users are the team that govern enrolment for students and access for academics. In other words, the Authentication and Authorisation for the platform.

* an ATM Machine, your tertiary users are technicians that are called in to troubleshoot any faulty ATMs. There still needs to be an interface for them to run diagnostics and action repairs.

* a Myki tap on interface, your tertiary users are the technicians that troubleshoot the tap on interfaces in each bus, tram and train station. They still need a way to obtain event logs of the interfaces to identify the cause of failure for the system.

Tertiary users tend to administer and troubleshoot problems with the system. It is important to understand their requirements so support components can be built into any product you implement. Could you imagine if there was no diagnostics interface or event logging for the examples given?

## User Characteristics

For each of the user groups, you may choose to obtain the following characteristics, depending on the product being built:

* Demographics (eg age, gender, etc): to identify user cohorts for testing purposes.
* Frequency of use (eg daily, weekly, monthly): to inform information density.
* Handedness (left or right dominant hand): to inform your interaction point (eg buttons, lists, etc) locations.
* Length of use (eg a minute, ten minutes, hours, etc): to inform information grouping.
* Physical or Intellectual Impairments (if any): to inform depth of accessibility support.
* Technical proficiency: to inform the acceptable complexity of the interface.
