# Goals & tasks

**What is the ultimate goal the product or system is designed to enable? What are the tasks that are needed to be achieved in order to accomplish said goals?** 

The functionality of the interfaces and tasks of the functionality are important to determine.

## Goals

The goal of a system _typically_ is aligned with the solution to the problem statement of the project. Once you have clarified the problem statement, you can systematically identify and complete associated tasks to achieve the goal of solving the problem presented.

Let's set an example goal and explore the tasks that would be required to accomplish it. The example goal would be:

**Get a Credit for SIT782**

## Tasks

Once a goal has been established, what are the tasks that need to be completed? Let's investigate and identify the tasks to **Get a Pass for SIT782**.

Looking at the rubric in our Week 1 article, it states:

* **Pass:** satisfy ***all*** conditions of the **Pass** grade.

Lets explore the conditions of the Pass grade:

* **Pass:** 
    * Completes all relevant tasks for this grade in OnTrack (with allowance in the Individual Retro)
    * Attends at least 7 of 9 meetings with supervisor, or has supervisor approval for absence
    * Evidences at least 8 hours of work per week overall
    * Does not block or impede the project team's progress due to negligence
    * Conducts self in a professional and respectful manner, based on issues raised to/from supervisor

Based on those conditions, what do you think the tasks would be?

**Completes all relevant tasks for this grade in OnTrack (with allowance in the Individual Retro)**
_This condition requires completion of all the tasks in OnTrack, meaning the task here would be to ensure all the required tasks in OnTrack are marked as Complete._

**Attends at least 7 of 9 meetings with supervisor, or has supervisor approval for absence** 

_The task here is straight forward, to be in attendence for as many meetings as possible._

**Evidences at least 8 hours of work per week overall**

_This task is fairly direct too, the Individual Retrospective for the unit indicates how we can calculate the hours of work per week. As long as we effectively use our time that is recorded in our Team Work Logs from Week 3 onwards, we _should_ be fine._

**Does not block or impede the project team's progress due to negligence**

_The task for this is to ensure that if there is a delay in the delivery of work, it due to lack of trying. Some tasks are more challenging than others. In such scenarios you will need to systematically attempt different ways of solving the task so that when you approach our team or supervisor, you can present evidence of the different ways you have tried to complete the task._

**Conducts self in a professional and respectful manner, based on issues raised to/from supervisor**

_This tasks us with responsible behaviour. The task of behaving professionally indicates that both our team and supervisor are determining factors in whether we are behaving appropriately._

Are these all the tasks? Aren't we forgetting one more?

To get a **Pass**, we must satisfy ***all*** conditions of the **Pass** grade. This means that there is one more task, which is to ensure that **all** the tasks we have listed before are completed, else our **Pass** grade is forfeit!

