# User centred design evaluation criteria

**Now that we've established the Context of Use, how do we evaluate if we have successfully worked toward a useable solution?**

The key evaluation criteria are Effectiveness, Efficiency and Satisfaction.

## Effectiveness
Effectiveness is measured in a binary manner. Expanding on our goal of obtaining a Pass, we know if have effectively completed the tasks by obtaining the Pass grade. Keep this in mind when you think through the requirements of the problem you are trying to solve in this unit. How can you break down the problem into smaller problems that result in a success or failure type outcome? 

## Efficiency
Efficiency is a measure of time. Successfully completing all the tasks for a Pass grade over the course of two years is not helpful toward the goal of attaining a Pass. When you design your workflow, keep in mind how long it would take to go through all the steps required, or how long it would take for someone to read your report. Do you really need a 12 page user registration screen? Could your report have communicated the same information in 2 pages instead of 30 pages?

## Satisfaction
Satisfaction is the last and subjective measure. For software systems and interface designs, we typically conduct a [System Usability Scale](https://www.usability.gov/how-to-and-tools/methods/system-usability-scale.html) survey. This is a survey you give to users after they have interacted with your system to capture the non-functional opinions of your system. For artefacts such as reports, it is harder to capture this information. Consider asking users if the content was confusing, if the information was presented in a coherent flow, if terms and definitions were used that were not clearly explained, and so on.
