# Meeting agenda and minutes

**It is important to document all meetings so that topics discussed and decisions made can be reflected upon at a later date if needed.**

Documenting meetings is also important to help keep members who were absent or your supervisor up to date.

In Week 2, you should be preparing to meet your supervisor for the first time, this should occur before the end of Week 3. Make sure to agree on a common time to meet.

The first step for preparing for every meeting is to prepare a meeting agenda. A template document is provided to assist you in preparing the meeting agenda.

In this unit, you will need to prepare an agenda and minutes for your weekly meeting with your supervisor. Let’s look at what you need to do step-by-step.

* **Before** your weekly meeting with your supervisor, download the meeting-minutes template and fill up the agenda with items that you are going to be discussing in the meeting.

* If there are action items from the previous week, copy them over and update the status accordingly, if there are none, you can leave the relevant section empty.

* Submit this incomplete meeting minutes document via OnTrack, as your supervisor will be referring to this submission throughout the meeting.

* Conduct your meeting with your supervisor (continue to fill up your copy meeting-minutes document). Your supervisor might have this document up on a shared screen, but will run this meeting according to the agenda you have proposed, adding items as necessary.

* You might find your supervisor capturing notes using the comments section of the submission in OnTrack for their reference. You should still take meeting minutes for your team regardless.

* Once the meeting has concluded, your supervisor will typically mark the task Resubmit. Once you have cleaned up and completed your meeting minutes document, resubmit it via OnTrack.

Collaboration amongst teams, its members, and project stakeholders can be a key driver in the performance and success of projects.

## Your task

Make sure you always prepare an agenda and minutes of all meetings.