# In Practice: Sprint Retro

<!-- Video -->

**A Sprint retrospective is a process improvement activity, its purpose is to improve things for the next sprint.**

As a rule, bring only your team, no stakeholders in this meeting.

In [Agile Retrospectives– Making Good Teams Great by Diana Lawson and Esther Derby], they pose five major activities to structure your spin retro:

1. set the stage

2. gather data

3. generate insights

4. decide what to do

5. close.

Let’s go through these activities in more detail.

## 1. Set the stage
Set the context to make the team feel comfortable and safe. Remember, what happens in a retro stays in a retro.

Get the team members mentally present. Ask them some sort of a relevant question that forces them to be engaged. For example: in two words, what do you want to get out of today’s retro?

Don’t take anything personally. Get everybody to agree that there are no wrong answers for this.

## 2. Gather data
This can be done using Post-it Notes. The data we want to gather are for example:

what when well?
what areas of improvement are there?
what things when badly for the sprint?
The purpose is not to point fingers, but merely to identify issues, their causes and to address these, and in doing so, to improve.

## 3. Generate insights
Look for patterns or commonalities in the teams responses to any of the tree questions. Was teamwork great? Was communication unclear? Was there a lack of success criteria?

You also want to separate one time problems from problems that happen on every sprint. This will affect how you prioritise the issues to be addressed.

## 4. Decide what to do
This is all about action items that we commit to do for the next sprint.

Assign each action item to an individual or the team. Ensure that there is a commitment to this.

## 5. Close
Recap everything that was covered, including the data gathered.

Reiterate what you have found to be the issues. It is important to attribute good findings to the different team members, as well as the action items for the next sprint.

## Your task
Watch the video of my team doing a sprint retrospective. Were we able to resolve everything? Do you have any resolutions that you could suggest? Share your responses in the comments section.

