# Project management in practice

**Let's see what project managers actually do!**

## Anju Curumsing

**What do you actually do?**
People think that, you know, a hub manager is just sitting around, bossing around people, and just managing people. But that's not it.

It involves a lot administrative work. And it involves a lot of handling people.

When I'm talking about people, it's not like staff working under me. It's a lot of CIs– Chief Investigators– who are academics in different universities. I have 34 of those with whom I have to coordinate and liaise with to discuss projects, their research interests and make sure that they're following all the guidelines.

Then, I also have a set of 10 industry partners with whom we're doing these projects. So we have to make sure that we are addressing the requirements of what they want to do within their industry and their company.

And then make sure that the chief investigators collaborate with the industry partners, and they get together with the right people.

So that's a bit about it. But there is also, on top of that, a lot of admin work. A lot of paperwork that goes on.

**What is the most rewarding aspect of your job?** 

What I look as rewarding is that, once we kick off with the projects, and we start proposing new technology to help people, we are actually helping support the elderly in their everyday living and improve their quality of life.

## Andrew Vouliotis

**What do you actually do?**

What I actually do is, I spend a lot of time with clients, liaising with clients. In those interactions, it's about scoping projects, it's about client satisfaction, it's about making sure that a project is still on path. It's ensuring that we're bringing them on board to a project, and they understand what they're actually collaborating with us for.

Other parts of my work include lab operations, or institute operations, and making sure things are working smoothly. Ensuring that the communications that I have with the client are communicated to the team. And any communications that they need to have go the other way, as well.

So it's essentially a liaison point for a whole heap of different people– between operations, between software engineers, between data scientists, and between the people who run the lab.

** What is the most rewarding aspect of your job?** 

When you ship a product and you see it in the end. When you have an end user actually using it, and they're satisfied and it actually solves the problem that you went out to achieve at the beginning of the project.

## Olivia Platek

**What do you actually do?**

So my role is, I guess, part project management, part business analyst.

In reality, a lot of what I do is conversations. So conversations with the developers, and with the customers. And when I say customers, it can be product owners, it can be the person paying for the project. Ideally, it's your end users, the people who will be making use of what we're building.

I talk to all of them to try and not just understand how we should build something, but understand whether it's the right thing to build.

Generally I'm the person who's going out to stakeholders, getting the information and making it visible, making it easy for everyone to access.

**What is the most rewarding aspect of your job?**

So when it comes to meaning, biggest for me is that I get to constantly change domains, and change where I'm working.

I've worked in banking, I've worked in insurance, I'm now working in retail. I've also worked in a number of different places.

**What happens when you drop the ball?**

The biggest way to drop the ball is to have all of that information in your head and share it only as needed.

Often, you're being a piece of glue for the team, keeping them together both in helping them understand what they're working on, and helping them understand the detailed requirements and the priority of what's coming next.

## Your task
As we see from our three practitioners, project managers roles are all different. Is this an area you are interested in? What is it that you find interesting in project management?