# Keeping up with project management

**What are the challenges of project management? How will this role change in the future? Let's see what project managers have to say.**

**Olivia Platek:**

So to be honest, I think I could be replaced by a well-structured wiki page, at the very least. Of course, there has to be a well-structured wiki page in the first place, and the team has to understand how to keep it structured, how to put information into it. But once you've got that, if we just sort of had self-structuring pages, you wouldn't need me as much– and you had teams that were disciplined enough to share that knowledge and to refer to the page.

But ultimately, you still need people to go talk to other people. There's always some sort of role in there, whether it's just discussing with stakeholders and understanding what the next priority piece of work is. There's always something to be done.

**Andrew Vouliotis:**

I think the role of the product manager will still be there, but it may have a different title.

I think the people who have this role need to have a diverse set of skills so they are able to work at any point in an organisation, to essentially pick things up. So if something is thrown at them, they must be able to adapt and figure out for themselves how to solve a problem, whether its going to be, you're launching a product in a media event, so you have to go and deal with all the people in marketing and in the press release, and organising what that entails and the demonstrations for that, all the way through to actually running a product.

## Your task
Do you think a project manager can really be replaced by a well structure wiki page, as Olivia joked? Share your thoughts on the future of this role.