# Project management in projects

**What is your responsibility as a project manager? How will you measure the success of a project? What risks and priorities do project managers identify? What is testing?**

These are some of the questions we put forward to our experts. Let's see what they had to say.

**Andrew Vouliotis**

"In terms of priorities, the big one is what can we show the person who's paying for a project to show that the work that's actually being done is getting shipped. And what I mean there is, we can do a lot of stuff in the back end of making the system nice and elegant in the way that it handles that. But it means nothing if there's not even a simple UI for the paying customer to see, to see that something is actually functioning."

**Olivia Patek**

"I think a lot of the time in team projects, they're working on– let's say, often, in the first couple of weeks at least, you're working with a lot of framework pieces, laying the foundation of the project. But you're not delivering something that the customer or the stakeholders can see."

"But really the testing role itself becomes more about planning the level of test, planning how much you're testing with an automated manner and how much you're testing manually, and really just exploring more, not necessarily the intent of what you're building, but how someone is actually going to use it. Because they can often be quite different."

*Anju Curumsing*

"So testing software engineering would be, like, you're testing the software and making sure that it meets the requirements of the user and it meets the quality standards and all that."

## Your task
How do you see the role of a project manager? What is the key responsibility of this role? Share your thoughts.