# User stories

**User stories help convey the different stakeholders' needs.**

A user story is a popular technique used to communicate what a user may want to do with a system and why.

A user story is a technique to communicate and collaborate on software features between various project stakeholders including clients, managers, users and the development team.

The process of writing user stories should be a collaborative process, and not be isolated to just the project team.

User stories are typically written from the perspective of the end user or persona in a language that your client would understand, and follow a simple format:

> As a **[persona]**, I want to **[action]** so that **[reason]**.

The **persona** ensures that you’re thinking about the actual people who will use this feature. If there is no identifiable persona or type of user, you should reconsider whether you need this story.

The **action** describes what will happen, but not **how** it is to happen. How the action or goal is achieved is outlined in the corresponding use case. Use cases are explored in the next activity.

The **reason** describes the purpose of this feature, depicting why the user wants to do this thing with the software. Again, if you cannot provide a reason, you should reconsider whether the feature is actually important.

These are some sample user stories:

> As a customer, I want to purchase multiple products at once, so that I can pay in a single transaction.
>
> As an financial officer, I want to download the last 6 months of purchase transactions as PDF reports, so that I can reconcile our financial accounts.
>
> As a student, I want to access the course materials online, so that I can complete my assessment tasks anywhere.

As you can see, while a user story is not a strict specification that the project team must follow, it can still describe functional and non-functional requirements in natural language.

## Why are they useful?
User stories are helpful in capturing discrete requirements based on the perspective of the end user, facilitating the development teams to gain an understanding of the system requirements and user contexts.

They also lend themselves to easily prioritise functionality of the software, reducing planning time, and only require the project team to define further details when undertaking that story.

## What purpose do they serve?
User stories help project stakeholders to associate a priority to each requirement, assisting the project team to plan the project.

User stories are also used by the project team to estimate the effort required to implement the requirement. This is done by assigning story points, which are explored later in this activity.
