# User story acceptance criteria

**Acceptance criteria complement user stories. They specify what is needed for a feature or functionality to meet what was specified in the user story.**

User stories are useful but still don't provide enough information to get software engineers started on building system features.

Acceptance criteria are intended to get the team to think through how a feature or functionality should work from the users' perspective.


Let's look at the following user story:

> As a customer, I want to purchase food online so that it can be delivered at home

This user story could have the following acceptance criteria:

>- The user can't submit their order without providing their address.
>
>- Payments can be made via Visa, MasterCard, and Paypal.
>
>- Expired credit cards are rejected.

Acceptance criteria help us understand:

* what is required for the feature to work: eg. an address is required

* by what paths the user can achieve their goal: eg. payment via one of many methods

* what the system needs to do under certain circumstances: eg. reject expired cards.

Acceptance criteria are written in natural language on the back of the corresponding user story card. This keeps the user story and its acceptance criteria together.


## Acceptance testing

Acceptance criteria help define the boundaries of a user story and are used to confirm when a story is completed and working as intended.

Acceptance criteria form the basis for acceptance testing that will confirm that a feature or functionality is working and complete according to the customer.

**Note** Be careful not to confuse acceptance testing with software testing, which is the testing of individual software components or modules to ensure they behave as expected.
