# Usage scenarios - how user goals will be achieved

** To create usage scenarios, system analysts need to identify high-level requirements related to what users expect from the system and how they may approach interacting with the system.**

A usage scenario highlights the steps taken by a user to achieve a goal while using the system, without revealing any system specific details.

Specific system details are not included in usage scenarios because, at the time of their creation, it is not yet known what the system will look like and how it will function.

When creating a usage scenario, it should be written as a narrative that highlights the following:

- **Actor**: the user that is interacting with the system
- **Environment**: the setting in which the actor is using the system
- **Goal**: the outcome the actor using the system is expecting to achieve
- **Tasks**: steps undertaken by the actor in order to achieve the goal

## Example usage scenario

The following example has been derived for a hypothetical online clothes shopping process:

> Sam is an avid clothes shopping enthusiast who is generally too busy to visit a shopping centre. Sam works long days to fund his purchases and by the time he's finished at work, all of the shops are closed.
>
> Sam still wants to spend his money on clothes, so he's decided to use an online store called "Mail Me Threads" to fulfill his desire to buy clothes within the comfort of his own home.
>
> Sam loads his "Mail Me Threads" profile and starts to browse the catalogue. He finds some shirts that he likes and adds them to his cart. He then decides he wants some jeans, so he changes the catalogue to the denim product line and adds some jeans to his cart. Sam proceeds to the checkout to pay for his clothes. He uses his credit card and nominates an ideal delivery day so that he can be home when his new clothes are delivered.

Notice that the example portrayed above provides a narrative that provides all the relevant detail:

* the **actor** is portrayed as an individual named Sam

* the **environment** in which he is using the system "Mail Me Threads" is his home
* Sam's **goal** is to buy clothes
* the **tasks** required to reach his goal: loading his profile, browsing catalogues, adding items to his cart, paying and nominating an ideal delivery day.

