# Quality requirements

**Quality requirements, also referred to as non-functional requirements, are a set of qualities that must be exhibited by the solution, such as performance and efficiency.**

The effectiveness of many solutions depends not only on what they can do, but also how they operate. For example, whether they are accessible and reliable.

Often quality requirements specify the characteristics a behaviour of the solution must have in order for that behaviour to be useful. The effectiveness of many solutions depends not only on what they can do, but also how they operate.

For example, consider a level crossing system that activates traffic signals and drops a boom gate when it detects the arrival of a train. The behaviours of the system include:

* detecting trains
* activating traffic signals
* operating the boom gates.

However, the system must be able to consistently and quickly perform these actions to prevent accidents. Thus, to fulfil its intended role, the example system must exhibit the qualities of:

* performance
* reliability.

## Common quality requirements

There are many qualities a solution may require to address a particular problem. Some examples are:

* accessibility
* availability
* efficiency
* privacy
* reliability
* scalability
* usability
* performance
* security
* fault tolerance
* extensibility
* maintainability
* robustness.

## Challenges
Quality is difficult to achieve and understanding the quality requirements for a system requires thorough analysis.

A common challenge to achieving quality is that the quality requirements are often implied, ie everyone expects a mobile app to be fast, but the client may not specify that as a requirement.

It takes significant effort to build quality into a product and often early design decisions influence the final quality.

## Your task

Reflect on how a complex system that you often interact with, such as an online banking portal, works or ‘behaves’. Use your increased knowledge of requirements to identify as many features of the system as you can. What kind of requirements do these features address? Share in comments.
