# Documenting requirements

**Requirements must be clearly documented by the system analyst so the rest of the team can interpret them correctly.**

An effective systems analyst identifies very specific requirements that directly address each aspect of the business problem. However, the rest of the project team lacks the knowledge of the business problem that the analyst possesses.

Requirements not only affect the project directly but also in indirect ways, such as influencing the design of the system, which in turn affects its implementation.

It is extremely important that requirements are documented by the systems analyst in a way that is clear, direct and not open to interpretation.

Vague requirements can cause much wasted effort as they are misinterpreted throughout successive phases of the project, resulting in features, or even complete systems, that fail to address the actual problem.

## Phrasing requirements
The language used to describe requirements determines how these will be understood, therefore analysts must be very careful with their use of language in requirements documentation.

Requirements are generally described using the following format:

The **system** must/shall **perform behaviour** when/unless/while **condition**.

Examples:

* The application must store in-progress email messages prepared by the user.

* The application shall not discard email messages when they fail to send.

* The application must notify the user of received emails when the messages arrive.

Be consistent with the way you use language in requirement descriptions, especially when using imperative terms such as must and shall. Explicitly tell your readers whether some weaker imperatives, such as shall, are binding (the corresponding behaviours must be present in the complete system) or non-binding.

It is also useful to explicitly state what you mean when you use certain words in the requirements’ descriptions, thus avoiding readers interpreting your language differently.

Avoid vague words and use active voice to make your language more direct.

## Preparing high-quality documentation

Effective requirements include the following considerations and details:

* Audience: When documenting requirements, always consider the stakeholders of the project. Write the requirements in such a way that they can be understood by this audience.

* Rationale: Add a rationale to each requirement to communicate to the reader the reason for its existence and its importance. The rationale should be as detailed as necessary for the intended audience.

* Neutrality: Be careful to avoid assumptions about how requirements will be implemented in the system when documenting requirements. Focus on the observable behaviour of the system, not its internal mechanisms.

When finalising documentation, be sure to evaluate the complete set of requirements. Search for ambiguities and logical inconsistencies and correct any that you find.

Finally, add a unique identifier to each requirement so that it can be indexed and easily referenced.
