# Requirements and communication

**Challenges inevitably arise in all IT projects, and most of these challenges stem from poor requirements analysis and communication.**

Challenges are different for different IT fields. However, common causes of failure are

* missing key requirements
* clients not properly expressing key requirements
* requirements changing throughout the project with these changes not being communicated.

For example, in a networking project context, a challenge could be that the client's user base grows substantially from when the project starts. If this possibility wasn't accounted for in the initial design, it is possible that the initial network design won’t scale effectively. This requirements change could lead to a project failure!

## Project specific terminology

Vocabulary, or domain vocabulary, refers to the terminology used in the domain of the project you are working on. Understanding the domain vocabulary is essential for requirement analysis.

IT touches the lives of everyone, and almost every business. This provides a challenge in that IT professionals need to understand the specific terminology of the IT world, as well as that of the domain of the project they are working on.

As an example, working on IT systems for hospitals would require an understanding of basic medical and hospital terms, ranging from "patient" to specific incident report codes etc.

Another example would be here at Deakin! "Trimester", "Credit Point", "Enrolment" are all terms which would need to be understood by an IT professional who is working on a project for Deakin, and while these terms may have obvious meaning to you as a Deakin student, to others they may not.
