# Problem statements - client needs

**Developing problem statements is a very important step in requirements gathering and analysis, it requires communication and information transfer between clients and project members.**

A *problem statement*, is an atomic, small and digestible piece of text (around 3 - 5 paragraphs), which paints a picture of a current problem faced by a client. It is a definition of the problem your project aims to solve.

A good problem statement will address the main problems of the key stakeholders (anyone who interacts with the system) *before* any proposed solutions are even thought about.

Problem statements can not be developed individually, they require a strong understanding of:

* the project
* the domain
* the client.

Work with your client to analyse the problem, discuss domain vocabulary, and identify root causes of problems. Ensure your problem statements are written professionally, with appropriate grammar and tone.

## Example

In the competitive airline business, efficient boarding of passengers is key to delivering timely flights for our customers, as well as smooth operation for our partner airlines and airports. *Spirit Airlines* is required to ensure all passenger's tickets are referenced before boarding, to ensure the person boarding the plane is the same person holding the ticket/passport at the gate.

Currently, Spirit Airline employees check manually if the passport photo matches the passenger. While this system is successful, it is slow, as some passengers have to dig through their bags for their passports.

It is proposed to build a system which integrates with the existing Passport Database, so that when tickets are scanned at the gates, it automatically retrieves the passenger's photo for easy checking by the employee. The system will also be responsible for alerting the employee if there are any travel flags, warnings or messages for a particular passenger.


## Your Task

Create an example problem statement for your project! Research your project domain, identify and use the appropriate domain vocabulary, and ensure what you create is professional, as you will be submitting this to your client. Share in comments and give advice to your peers on their statements.


# Article

>This article has been re-purposed from the unit SIT773.
