# User pain points

**Identifying pain points is another very important step in requirements gathering and analysis, it involves gathering information from the actual users.**

While problem statements require communication and information transfer between clients and project members, pain points are gathered from the actual users of the current system.

To identify the pain points, you will interview and observe users to try to understand what works and what doesn't work.

As pain points should list the experiences of the users, it is important to remain unbiased in the recording of these. It is recommended that multiple members of your team individually record and compare pain points, to ensure coverage and to remove possible biases.

## Examples

* I can't easily add new clients to the spreadsheet because their details take too long to load.
* It takes too long to order a pizza.

As you can see, pain points can be severe or minor, if they cause pain to the user, they are included in the list.

## Ranking Pain Points

Once pain points are assembled by your team, it is important to rank them by severity/priority. This is usually done through some sort of voting system, where each member votes in order of their priority and a final rank is formulated.

Once you have a list of ordered pain points, it is important to run them by the client, to see if there's anything you may have missed and to get their feedback.

# Article

>This article has been re-purposed from the unit SIT773.
