# Artificial intelligence and data science in practice

**Let's see what artificial intelligence and data scientists actually do!**

## Nicola Pastorello

**What do you actually do?**

There is way more than data pre-processing. There is a lot of creativity involved. And that kind of creativity is pretty much based on finding solutions to problems in never-seen ways, new ways.

I will say that the core, the engine of an AI solution, should be the responsibility of a data scientist.

However, it's very important to have the connections between that component and the rest of the system well defined from the beginning. For the engineers, it will be good just if you assume that all projects are a simple contribution of an engineering component and a data science or AI component. Once the plugs between these two components are well defined, the data scientist can work in isolation, can create its model, and the engineer can build a whole infrastructure around it.

Importantly, not just the infrastructure and the input-output have to be defined, but also basic working tests.

## Elodie Thilliez

**What do you actually do?** 

It's not just about applying data science and programming and delivering something. You need to be able to tell the client how they can use the solution.

Actually, we are trying to see how does the machine learn. And if we can figure out how the machine is coming up with its final result, then maybe we can apply AI to understand the science behind the problem. So rather than just finding a solution which works at 80%, we are now trying to figure out, how did the machine learn, and what really happens behind the black box that AI is?

## Mohamed Abdelrazek

**What do you actually do?** 

It all starts with the problem that we're trying to solve. And that's the very important question that every business or everyone who wants to use AI today needs to understand, what kind of problems AI can solve for them today and in the next five years.

From academic perspective, sometimes you come up with the idea. Like if a direct problem is actually highlighted or raised by the industry, then your role is basically to come up with an innovative solution that will solve this problem and then try to see it all the way through, through coming up with the algorithms and solutions, and then, of course, working with software engineers and research fellows to try and deliver a working solution.

In other cases, we are the initiators and then we push the idea all the way to industry. In these cases, you have to find out actually who's going to fund this.

## Your task
Are you interested in a career in artificial intelligence/ data science? What is it that you like about this area?