# Keeping up with artificial intelligence and data science

**Let's listen to what practitioners involved in artificial intelligence and data science have to say about the future of the field.**

## What is the future of artificial intelligence and data scientists?

**Nicola Pastorello:**

Five years on it will be a commodity that every company with more than 10 employees will need. In ten years, pretty much they will be all unemployed. Sad truth. But since it's something that is so needed right now and so few data scientists exist in the market, there is a massive push to provide tools or software solutions that pretty much do what a data scientist is doing right now.

I would give an advice to data scientists to push a bit more the boundaries. To learn a bit more about the AI neural network side of things, because that's years ahead, before it gets, you know too old. And keep staying close to the edge.

**Elodie Thilliez:**

I think we're going to have to be more aware of the laws regulating the usage of that data science, and the safety of what we're developing.

## Keeping up with artificial intelligence and data science

**Nicola Pastorello:**

Learn to refine your sources of knowledge, to keep up to speed. Because you can't keep up to date with everything that gets out. It's too much.

**Elodie Thilliez:**

It's really important for us to keep an eye on what are the new algorithms coming up, what are the new optimization technique.

**Mohamed Abdelrazek:**

I think it's like water. If you don't read article or something about these new technologies every day, you probably just– you know, you become outdated very quickly.

## Your task
What are your strategies to keep up to date? Share with your peers in comments.