# Advice from project managers

**Anju, Andrew and Olivia share their insights with you on what personal traits are useful as a project manager.**

**Anju Curumsing**

"So I think you have to maintain the right attitude."

"So I can say that you have to be focused. You need to be well on time. You need to have a good understanding of what's going on. And above all, you have to be a good leader– a good team player as well, because you are part of a big team. And a good sense of responsibility as well. Good communication skills as well."

**Andrew Vouliotis**

"good communication skills. You have to be able to communicate with a lot of stakeholders. This is software engineers, in our role over here in an AI institute, data scientists, administrators, clients, and people who– it may even be the public that you're trying to educate. They have no understanding of a specific technology. So you have to be able to boil a concept down to its fundamental meaning, and actually develop analogies to try and explain it."

**Olivia Platek**

"Don't be afraid to ask lots of questions. So when I first started my career, you try and be brave, and pretend like you know what's going on, and you're kind of afraid to admit when you didn't understand something, or you didn't hear something, particularly when you're working with people with accents that you're not familiar with, or haven't worked with before."

"I think being humble. So you've got to have certain strong opinions about, say, a way of working, or maybe about how something should be built. But ultimately it's really important to listen to a lot of other people, and have this collective understanding of what you're building and why you're building."

## Your task
Were any of the traits mentioned in these responses a surprise to you? Share your thoughts in comments.