# Project team dynamics

**How important is it to play nice with your team? According to the practitioners interviewed, it's the most important thing, above everything else!**

Most of their answers focused on relationships:

**Damien Manuel:** If people feel you're not a team player, you tend to be isolated and what you'll tend to find is you've only hurt yourself.

**Kathryn Manuel:** If you are going to work on projects, you will not survive if you're not a team player.

**Andrew Vuoliotis:** It's very important to make sure that your team members are happy, because if you have a disgruntled team, you will lose their respect, and they won't be satisfied in the workplace, they'll be disengaged and not care about the work.

**Elodie Thilliez:** It's really important to share your knowledge and accept that someone else may have the answer that you don't have. So very important.

**Olga Goloshchapova:** The more you cause trouble, and the more you have the ego, the less people want to collaborate with you, and it creates tension. And this tension always shows and affects the quality of work.

**Wayne Buchner:** You don't have to be friends. You have to be professional. Don't speak over people. Don't dismiss people's opinion.

**Olivia Platek:** Super important. I think ultimately a good team doesn't have space for heroes.

There was also reference to responsibility when being part of a team:

**Kathryn Manuel:** If you make a commitment to meet a deadline, you need to actually make sure that you make it. Because any extension impacts the time frames, impacts your budget, and has flow on implications for everyone else in the project.

**Wayne Buchner:** You need to complete the tasks that are assigned to you. And to do it in a responsible manner, and in a professional manner.

