# Soft skills that help you succeed

**Good communication skills will help you in any role. Let's hear what our experts have to say about this.**

**Kathryn Manuel**

"The soft skills come down to the fundamentals of being trustworthy, of being open and honest, of being an effective communicator. Unfortunately, technology these days doesn't necessarily help us to learn how to do that."

**Olivia Platek**

"Absolutely communication. I'll keep saying that again. Because a lot of my role is about making sure that everyone is on the same page of understanding."

**Olga Goloshchapova**

"In a lot of cases, you just need to know how to talk to people. And if you want to improve on that, don't be afraid to go and ask questions"

**Elodie Thilliez**

"You can expand on it by presenting your work on a weekly basis to your coworker. You can learn a bit more about it when you start supervising someone. So things like communication and management are really critical in some of these projects."

**Zoey Bendef**

"There's no task– or there's very rarely a task– that you won't have to go to for clarification."

**Damien Manuel**

"Develop your public speaking skills. Everybody hates talking in public, and everybody feels nervous. Recognise that. Embrace it. And push yourself to be a little bit uncomfortable, and take on public speaking roles, or leadership roles where you do need to speak to the general public, or to people within sort of an organisation. Because you'll find the more you do that, the easier it will become over time."

**Andrew Vouliotis**

"So one of the biggest skills that I've had to learn is to just listen to people. And you have to be a very good listener."