# Project management as a career

**Let's hear from project managers how their career evolved and what they look for when interviewing graduates.**

## Career evolution

**Andrew Vouliotis:**

The way I see my career progressing is, I'll be in charge of a number of different portfolio areas for the lab. As I progress throughout my time here, and throughout my career, rather than working on specific projects, I'll be overlooking a number of projects which other people, I will be helping select what projects they are, and how they actually target the problems that this specific organisation is trying to target.

**Anju Curumsing:**

Coming from different roles such as lecturer and project lead has formed me. Because you need to have a notion of what software engineers are capable of, what their duties are like, and then as a lecturer I've been in touch with students, I've been in touch with other researchers, economists and all that. And right now I'm dealing with CEOs so I kind of know how they operate, their behaviour. For example software engineers are like deadline oriented, CEOs are not.

**Olivia Platek:**

I think the starting point is just to get into a project. Ideally shadowing with another person of a similar role. But you learn the most on the job, so going from one project and then going to another and then going to another.

If you've spent three, four years in the same sort of work, the same business , with the same team, you're probably not really learning about different ways of working. You're just learning how to make that one team more efficient. And there's benefit in that, too. But go visit another company, come back, bring learnings. Just going to conferences, visiting other companies, visiting other projects.

## What do you look for when hiring graduates?

**Anju Curumsing:**

* highly motivated
* determined
* right attitude to dealing with the clients and the end users

**Andrew Vuoliotis:**

* flexibility
* ability to change course, correct, and prioritise tasks based on ever changing targets.

**Olivia Platek:**

* common sense
* ability to reflect information back: draw diagrams, write notes down as they're going, ask validating questions,
* easy to work with: I like to imagine that I am going to be working with that person.

## What should graduates do to set themselves apart?

**Anju Curumsing:**

* have the right attitude
* show commitment towards their work
* show that they can do things.

**Andrew Vuoliotis:**

* becoming aware of the different roles
* understanding what it takes to actually ship a project
* knowing the fact that there's all these various areas that you will have to come across.

**Olivia Platek:**

* being able to draw on experiences, so whether that means they are doing a lot of volunteer work, a lot of teamwork, or whether it's a case of bringing experience from a completely different domain.

## Your task
What does having the right attitude means to you?