# Cyber security and networking as a career

**Let's learn about cyber security careers and how graduates can advocate for cyber security.**

## What might a career in cyber security look like?

Cyber security is an enormously broad industry. There are components of it that do involve plugging in cables, and drawing solution diagrams, and things like that. But then, it goes all the way through to:

* the networking space, that could be managing firewalls, proxies, data loss prevention technologies
* the political arena, policy development at federal government level
* the legal side around data protection, contracts, liabilities, drafting of new laws
* the governance space around ensuring that we've got the right frameworks in place to actually protect information
* the development phase, in terms of developing the new technologies
* an advisory role, advising the business around trends, and what's coming
* the awareness side, cyber security awareness programmes that a lot of companies have internally.

It is so vast. Cyber security these days can be in almost any field if there is information involved and information is coming in or going out. Cyber security in the health space is just going to keep growing exponentially.

## How can graduates advocate for cyber security?

**Damien Manuel:**

So I think within the industry, they talk about what they call FUD– Fear, Uncertainty, and Doubt. Definitely don't use that to try and change the mindset of an organisation.

It would be much better to have the approach of saying, look, we need to do these things for this reason– whether it's legislation that's being driven, or best practice, or it could be to save money– and really give the business the different options, and help support them through those options, and help them understand the consequence of the different selection processes that they make.

**Kathryn Manuel:**

It really does come down to communicating– so being clear around the message that they want to convey to the organisation.

So they need to not be saying no– it's not a blanket no, it's either a no and here's the reasons why, because some things we just simply can't do and shouldn't do or it's a, guys, if we do this and we do it now, we're going to save ourselves all this pain down the road.

## Your task
Cyber security practitioners recommend having a positive approach to communication rather than a fear based one. How would you develop the skills of communicating in positive ways?