# Software engineering as a career

**Let's hear from software engineers what it means to be a project lead and what they look for when interviewing graduates.**

## Software engineering career paths

**Olga Goloshchapova:**

For developers, there has been always this perception that you work alone. And you don't really need to have social skills. The more I work in this industry, the more I understand that these are the cases sometimes, and it is fine. But the job evolves. You work in teams.

* You need to learn how to work in teams.
* You need to learn how to talk to people.
* You need to learn how to work with others.

Depending on how well you learn all of those things, your career progression might be completely different.

**Wayne Buchner**

I've seen a lot of young leads come through, and they might be technically extremely good. But they don't have the people skills. They just haven't been around long enough.

If you're young and this is your first job out of uni, you need to learn as much as you can, and five or six years of learning. And you might move around. I would try a lot of projects. I would move every couple of years. And enjoy it as much as you can, but learn as much as you can. And not just the code. I'm talking about learning from the project managers, the team leads, even the higher ups, reading their communications, learning about the style of an organisation. It's everything else that you don't learn at uni that you need to really master once you start working.

## What are you looking for in graduates?

** Olga Goloshchapova:**

* passion
* critical thinking
* problem solving
* drive to learn new stuff
* drive to participate, and be in a group, and work in a team
* basic understanding of the IT concepts
* brush up on the basics: OOP, domain driven design
* not necessarily being proficient at programming languages, because that's what you learn in a job.

**Wayne Bucher:**

* being really keen to learn
* make sure you understand what Agile development is, or Scrum
* you should know what a project is– really have a very good idea of what a software project is
* if someone comes into an interview, and they're telling me how we need to change things, that's a bit of an alarm bell.

**Zoey Bendef:**

* attitude of wanting to learn
* good communication skills is a must, being able to communicate verbally and in writing.

## Your task
What would be the key take away for you from the responses of these practitioners?