# Identifying gaps

**Project teams can present three types of gaps: knowledge, skill and technology.**

Before planning an IT project, any gaps within the project team needs to be identified and filled. Doing so is essential for the success of the project.

## Knowledge gaps
Knowledge gaps are directly related to the type of solution that needs to be built.

The domain of the system could be poorly understood, which would lead to poor requirements analysis, or the team may not be familiar with the environment or context in which the system will operate.

Strategies for addressing knowledge gaps include thorough domain analysis and documenting domain knowledge so that it can be shared amongst the team.

The team must be on the look out for knowledge gaps and close them as quickly as possible.

## Skill gaps
Skill gaps relate to the people on the project team.

The skillset of the team influences the way requirements are implemented and the quality of the final system.

To identify skill gaps, both the skillset of the project team and the skillset required for completing the project must be understood.

As understanding of the requirements grows, the team must identify what skills are required and if these don't exist in the team, they must suggest how the skill gap will be closed.

Approaches for addressing skill gaps include personal training and online courses.

## Technology gaps
Sometimes the requirements specified by the client are not feasible with existing technology.

When this occurs, research is needed to identify alternative solutions or investment is required to develop a solution that addresses the technology gap.

The team must identify all of the customer's expectations of the technologies the system is built on and ensure that it is feasible to create a system using those technologies.
