# Preparing a project plan

**A project plan focuses on the execution of a project and is a way to communicate the project status and direction to all key stakeholders.**

After the requirements have been identified and locked down, a project plan is needed to:

* specify what the project involves
* for effective resource scheduling
* to help expose potential project risks ahead of time
* to keep the project on track (if kept up-to-date).

As you can see, planning is a crucial step in the project development process.

## Roadmap

A project plan consists of a roadmap that captures the priorities of the project. A roadmap includes the key goals that need to be achieved and the order in which they should be completed.

Project plans are evolving documents that change as new information about the project comes to light and as such, should be treated as a guideline.

For the project plan to continue to be useful, multiple stages of planning are needed; it is not a once off process. As nobody can predict the future, detailed planning up to six weeks in advance is usually sufficient for the average project.

## Outcome-focused planning

It is important that a roadmap focuses on what is delivered to the customer; that is, the outcomes or deliverables that they require and not the activities that produce them because customers pay for outcomes (eg finished components of the system), not for development activities (eg researching the solution to a problem).

Focusing on outcomes rather than activities provides customers with a tangible benefit and can help boost the motivation of the project team as they can clearly visualise progress.

Examples of outcome-focused work include:

* writing code
* producing design artefacts
* writing handover documentation
* creating UI design documents.

Upskilling project team members can be productive if it is aligned with the company's strategies, but it must have a tangible outcome.
